# Really Automatic Scalable Object-Oriented Reengineering

## Summary

This paper describes a tool called AutoOO that automatically restructures procedural C programs into object-oriented Eiffel programs based on elements such as files, function signatures, and user-defined types.

I found this paper readable and clear. I liked that they used real applications and libraries for evaluation and demonstration. Overall, it seemed to be very practical with good explanations and effort justifications.

The main benefit of this tool is that it is fully automatic when compared to other alternatives. When used, the user just needs to specify the input C program and it produces correct (based on the target test suite) and performant (at least as the target) applications.

Additionally, to "upgrade" procedural programs to object-oriented structure AutoOO was also used to port C libraries to the Eiffel ecosystem. I think that this is a HUGE win for the Eiffel developers.

I also liked the way they approached the formalisation of "good" object-oriented design using metrics for encapsulation, cohesion and coupling. This can be subjective, but I think what they measured made a lot of sense.

One thing that I didn't like is this Eiffel feature they used for inheritance - field renaming: class s extends r renames a1:b1, a2:b2, . . ., am:bn.
I just find a combination of inheritance and field renaming confusing. It feels like another complexity added to the already complex inheritance mechanism. Maybe it's just cause I've seen projects with OOP inheritance overused or even abused. I have PTSD from Java classes...

The paper argued that the output program is readable and understandable by programmers familiar with the application domain and gives some small examples with the MongoDb driver. But I find it hard to believe. For a big project with a high degree of relations, most of the auto-generated frameworks I've worked with were hard to reason about, mainly because they don't take into account Domain Driven Design, which is the area that we humans have more impact on compared to autogenerated tools. That's why I was excited that they added "...we will explore the possibility of combining AutoOO’s completely automatic approach with additional user input" in future work.

I would like this paper to show a more complex example of generated classes maybe a class diagram as an illustration for one of the translated projects.

Overall I enjoyed this paper and I am tempted to try it out with a few sample C programs but I don't think I will waste my time on that.

